content/dev-blog/how-to-build-a-blog-with-next.js-and-velite.js.mdx, before:

---
id: 'b764fb28-cebb-42fd-9b4e-f056e55a6a3f'
title: 'How to build a blog with Next.js and Velite.js'
cover: '/assets/images/content/post/dev-blog/how-to-build-a-blog-with-next-js-and-velite-js/cover.png'
date: '2024-11-18T00:00:00Z'
lastUpdated: '2024-11-18T00:00:00Z'
description: 'Creating a fast, SEO-friendly blog using Next.js and Velite for easy content management. It covers setup, integration, styling, and deployment, ideal for streamlined blog development.'
author:
    {
        avatar: '/assets/images/logo/logo-circle-dark.svg',
        name: 'Hieu.BuiMinh',
        github: 'https://github.com/Hieu-BuiMinh',
    }
published: true
hashTags: { category: 'blog', tags: ['dev', 'coding', 'mdx', 'next-js'] }
---

## Preface

Velite is a powerful configuration tool for building type-safe data layer for Next.js with Zod schema, allowing developers to manage their apps with streamlined settings. Here, we will explore how to set up Velite for a Next.js project and enhance the development process.

The packages to be used:

-   [next](https://nextjs.org/) Next.js framework
-   [velite](https://velite.js.org/) Handling and loading mdx content
-   [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/) A utility-first CSS framework packed with classes

## Why Use Velite in Next.js?

-   **Efficiency**: Simplifies configuration management with structured files.
-   **Scalability**: Ideal for projects with complex routing or multilingual setups.
-   **Developer-Friendly**: Easy to integrate with minimal setup.

## Step-by-Step Guide

### Getting started with Next js

#### 1. Create a Next js project

Use the following commands to create a Next.js project and navigate to it:

<CodeBlock fileName="bash">

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest my-next-app
# or
cd my-next-app
```

</CodeBlock>

#### 2. Run Development Server

Start the development server:

<CodeBlock fileName="bash">

```bash
npm run dev
```

</CodeBlock>

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

Read the Next.js Documentation:

<LinkCard href="https://nextjs.org/docs" hostname="nextjs.org" title="Next js" />

### Velite configuration

#### 1. Install Velite

To get started, ensure you have Node.js installed. Then, install Velite using npm or yarn:

<CodeBlock fileName="bash">

```bash
npm install velite -D
# or
yarn add velite -D
```

</CodeBlock>

<LinkCard href="https://velite.js.org" hostname="velite.js.org" title="Velite.js" />

#### 2. Folder structured

<TreeView
	className="p-2 border rounded"
	data={[
		{
			id: '1',
			name: 'app',
			children: [
				{
					id: '1.1',
					name: 'blog',
					children: [
						{
							id: '1.1.1',
							name: '[...slug]',
							children: [{ id: '1.1.1.1', name: 'page.tsx', active: true }],
						},
						{ id: '1.1.2', name: 'page.tsx', active: true },
						{ id: '1.1.3', name: 'layout.tsx' },
					],
				},
			],
		},
		{
			id: '2',
			name: 'components',
			children: [
				{
					id: '2.1',
					name: 'heading.tsx',
					active: true,
				},
				{
					id: '2.2',
					name: 'mdx.tsx',
					active: true,
				},
			],
		},
		{
			id: '3',
			name: 'content',
			children: [
				{
					id: '3.1',
					name: 'blog',
					children: [{ id: '3.1.1', name: 'hello-world.mdx', active: true }],
				},
			],
		},
		{
			id: '4',
			name: '.velite',
			children: [
				{
					id: '4.1',
					name: '...velite auto genarating json files',
				},
				{ id: '4.2', name: 'blog.json', active: true },
			],
		},
		{ id: '5', name: 'package.json' },
		{ id: '6', name: 'next.config.mjs', active: true },
		{ id: '7', name: 'velite.config.ts', active: true },
	]}
	expandAll={true}
/>

#### 3. In `next.config.mjs`

Config for Velite plugins wiht webpack

<CodeBlock fileName="next.config.mjs">

```ts showLineNumbers
import { build } from 'velite'

/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
// eslint-disable-next-line import/no-anonymous-default-export
export default {
	webpack: (config) => {
		config.plugins.push(new VeliteWebpackPlugin())
		return config
	},
}

class VeliteWebpackPlugin {
	static started = false
	constructor(/** @type {import('velite').Options} */ options = {}) {
		this.options = options
	}
	apply(/** @type {import('webpack').Compiler} */ compiler) {
		compiler.hooks.beforeCompile.tapPromise('VeliteWebpackPlugin', async () => {
			if (VeliteWebpackPlugin.started) return
			VeliteWebpackPlugin.started = true
			const dev = compiler.options.mode === 'development'
			this.options.watch = this.options.watch ?? dev
			this.options.clean = this.options.clean ?? !dev
			await build(this.options)
		})
	}
}
```

</CodeBlock>

#### 4. Velite configuration and Define Collections in `velite.config.ts`

After creating a velite.config.ts file in the root directory of your project to define collections config.

Velite uses `velite.config.js/ts` as the config file. You can see it in the root directory of your project.
Now we can put our blog in to velite defineConfig function

<CodeBlock fileName="velite.config.ts">

```ts showLineNumbers
import { defineCollection, defineConfig, s } from 'velite'

export const computedFields = <T extends { slug: string }>(data: T) => {
	return { ...data, slugAsParams: data.slug.split('/').slice(1).join('/') }
	// blog/hello-world => ['blog', 'hello-world'] => ['hello-world] => '/hello-world'
}

const posts = defineCollection({
	name: 'Post', // name of colection
	pattern: 'blog/**/*.mdx', // watch all mdx file in blog folder
	schema: s
		.object({
			id: s.string(),
			slug: s.path(), // return blog path
			title: s.string().max(999),
			date: s.isodate(),
			lastUpdated: s.isodate().optional(),
			metadata: s.metadata().optional(),
			description: s.string().max(999).optional(),
			published: s.boolean().default(true),
			hashTags: s
				.object({
					category: s.string(),
					tags: s.array(s.string()),
				})
				.optional(),
			body: s.mdx(), // mdx content
			toc: s.toc({ tight: true, ordered: true, maxDepth: 6 }), // toc stand for table-of-content
			//slugAsParams <=> needed transform
		})
		.transform(computedFields),
})

export default defineConfig({
	root: 'content',
	output: {
		data: '.velite',
		assets: 'public/static',
		base: '/static/',
		name: '[name]-[hash:6].[ext]',
		clean: true,
	},
	collections: { posts },
	mdx: {
		rehypePlugins: [],
		remarkPlugins: [],
	},
})
```

</CodeBlock>

#### 5. Create the first content 🔥

<CodeBlock fileName="content/blog/hello-world.mdx">
```mdx showLineNumbers
---
id: 'xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-...'
title: 'This is the first post'
date: '2024-11-18T00:00:00Z'
lastUpdated: '2024-11-18T00:00:00Z'
description: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.'
published: true
hashTags: { category: 'Blog', tags: ['Lorem', 'Ipsum'] }
---

`##` Hello world

`###` This is my first post

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

````

</CodeBlock>

---

<CodeBlock fileName="components/mdx.tsx">

```tsx showLineNumbers
import Link from 'next/link'
import * as runtime from 'react/jsx-runtime'

import Heading from '@/components/heading'

const useMDXComponent = (code: string) => {
	const fn = new Function(code)
	return fn({ ...runtime }).default
}

const components = {
	// overwrite heading or other components here...
	h2: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h2'>) => <Heading as="h2" {...props} />,
	h3: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h3'>) => <Heading as="h3" {...props} />,
	h4: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h4'>) => <Heading as="h4" {...props} />,
	h5: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h5'>) => <Heading as="h5" {...props} />,
	h6: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h6'>) => <Heading as="h6" {...props} />,
	a: (props: React.AnchorHTMLAttributes<HTMLAnchorElement>) => {
		const { children, href, ...rest } = props

		if (!href) {
			return (
				<span className="text-muted-foreground line-through transition-colors hover:text-foreground" {...rest}>
					{children}
				</span>
			)
		}

		return (
			<Link
				className="font-bold text-green-600 no-underline transition-colors hover:text-foreground hover:underline dark:text-green-400"
				href={href}
				{...rest}
			>
				{children}
			</Link>
		)
	},
}

interface MdxProps {
	code: string
}

export function MDXContent({ code }: MdxProps) {
	const Component = useMDXComponent(code)
	return <Component components={components} />
}
````

</CodeBlock>

---

<CodeBlock fileName="app/blog/page.tsx">

```tsx showLineNumbers {3,8}
import Link from 'next/link'

import { posts } from '@/.velite'

function BlogPage() {
	return (
		<div className="flex h-screen w-screen items-center justify-center">
			{posts.map((post) => {
				return (
					<Link key={post.id} href={post.slug}>
						<div className="flex h-[200px] w-[400px] flex-col justify-between rounded-md border p-4">
							<p className="text-md font-bold">{post.title}</p>
							<p className="text-sm">{post.description}</p>
							<span>{post.date}</span>
						</div>
					</Link>
				)
			})}
		</div>
	)
}

export default BlogPage
```

</CodeBlock>

---

<CodeBlock fileName="app/blog/[...slug]/page.tsx">

```tsx showLineNumbers {4,28}
import { notFound } from 'next/navigation'

import { posts } from '@/.velite'
import { MDXContent } from '@/components/mdx'

interface PostPageProps {
	params: Promise<{ slug: string[] }>
}

async function getPostFromParams(params: PostPageProps['params']) {
	const resolvedParams = await params
	const slug = resolvedParams.slug.join('/')
	const post = posts.find((post) => post.slugAsParams === slug)

	return post
}

export default async function BlogDetailPageView({ params }: PostPageProps) {
	const post = await getPostFromParams(params)

	if (!post || !post.published) {
		notFound()
	}

	return (
		<div className="relative flex justify-between gap-10">
			<article>
				<MDXContent code={post.body} />
			</article>
		</div>
	)
}
```

</CodeBlock>

---

<CodeBlock fileName="bash">

```bash
npm i @tailwindcss/typography
```

</CodeBlock>

<CodeBlock fileName="tailwind.config.ts">

```ts showLineNumbers
const config: Config = {
	plugins: [require('@tailwindcss/typography')],
}
```

</CodeBlock>

<LinkCard href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tailwindcss/typography" hostname="tailwindcss" title="Tailwind" />

---

Now you can use the prose classes to add sensible typography styles to any vanilla HTML:

<CodeBlock fileName="tailwind.config.ts">

```tsx showLineNumbers {10}
export default async function BlogDetailPageView({ params }: PostPageProps) {
	const post = await getPostFromParams(params)

	if (!post || !post.published) {
		notFound()
	}

	return (
		<div className="relative flex justify-between gap-10">
			<article className="prose lg:prose-xl">
				<MDXContent code={post.body} />
			</article>
		</div>
	)
}
```

</CodeBlock>

#### 6. Get all blogs

After creating your first content .mdx, check your folder structured, you would see a folder named `.velite`, inside it you can see 2 files named `index.d.ts` and `blog.json`, that means ours `hello-world.mdx` have been parsed successfuly.

Inside

## Final result

<Image
	src="/assets/images/content/post/dev-blog/how-to-build-a-blog-with-next-js-and-velite-js/first-post.png"
	width={1920}
	height={1024}
	alt="first-post.png"
/>
<Image
	src="/assets/images/content/post/dev-blog/how-to-build-a-blog-with-next-js-and-velite-js/first-post-detail.png"
	width={1920}
	height={1024}
	alt="first-post-detail.png"
/>

---

## Conclusion

Velite makes your projects easier to maintain and expand, especially for growing applications.

By combining Next.js with Velite.js, you can efficiently build a fast, SEO-friendly blog with minimal configuration. This guide has covered the essential steps to get you started, from creating the Next.js project and installing Velite to defining blog content and rendering posts dynamically. The result is a streamlined, type-safe blog development experience that scales well for future projects.

With Next.js and Velite.js, you gain full control over your content, ensuring a smooth development process and an optimized blog that ranks well on search engines.

Happy coding (づ￣3￣)づ╭❤️～

Commit message:

main: change post detail heading image

content/dev-blog/how-to-build-a-blog-with-next.js-and-velite.js.mdx, after:

---
id: 'b764fb28-cebb-42fd-9b4e-f056e55a6a3f'
title: 'How to build a blog with Next.js and Velite.js'
cover: '/assets/images/content/post/dev-blog/how-to-build-a-blog-with-next-js-and-velite-js/cover.png'
date: '2024-11-18T00:00:00Z'
lastUpdated: '2024-11-18T00:00:00Z'
description: 'Creating a fast, SEO-friendly blog using Next.js and Velite for easy content management. It covers setup, integration, styling, and deployment, ideal for streamlined blog development.'
author:
    {
        avatar: '/assets/images/logo/logo-circle-dark.svg',
        name: 'Hieu.BuiMinh',
        github: 'https://github.com/Hieu-BuiMinh',
    }
published: true
hashTags: { category: 'blog', tags: ['dev', 'coding', 'mdx', 'next-js'] }
---

## Preface

Velite is a powerful configuration tool for building type-safe data layer for Next.js with Zod schema, allowing developers to manage their apps with streamlined settings. Here, we will explore how to set up Velite for a Next.js project and enhance the development process.

The packages to be used:

-   [next](https://nextjs.org/) Next.js framework
-   [velite](https://velite.js.org/) Handling and loading mdx content
-   [tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com/) A utility-first CSS framework packed with classes

## Why Use Velite in Next.js?

-   **Efficiency**: Simplifies configuration management with structured files.
-   **Scalability**: Ideal for projects with complex routing or multilingual setups.
-   **Developer-Friendly**: Easy to integrate with minimal setup.

## Step-by-Step Guide

### Getting started with Next js

#### 1. Create a Next js project

Use the following commands to create a Next.js project and navigate to it:

<CodeBlock fileName="bash">

```bash
npx create-next-app@latest my-next-app
# or
cd my-next-app
```

</CodeBlock>

#### 2. Run Development Server

Start the development server:

<CodeBlock fileName="bash">

```bash
npm run dev
```

</CodeBlock>

Visit [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

Read the Next.js Documentation:

<LinkCard href="https://nextjs.org/docs" hostname="nextjs.org" title="Next js" />

### Velite configuration

#### 1. Install Velite

To get started, ensure you have Node.js installed. Then, install Velite using npm or yarn:

<CodeBlock fileName="bash">

```bash
npm install velite -D
# or
yarn add velite -D
```

</CodeBlock>

<LinkCard href="https://velite.js.org" hostname="velite.js.org" title="Velite.js" />

#### 2. Folder structured

<TreeView
	className="p-2 border rounded"
	data={[
		{
			id: '1',
			name: 'app',
			children: [
				{
					id: '1.1',
					name: 'blog',
					children: [
						{
							id: '1.1.1',
							name: '[...slug]',
							children: [{ id: '1.1.1.1', name: 'page.tsx', active: true }],
						},
						{ id: '1.1.2', name: 'page.tsx', active: true },
						{ id: '1.1.3', name: 'layout.tsx' },
					],
				},
			],
		},
		{
			id: '2',
			name: 'components',
			children: [
				{
					id: '2.1',
					name: 'heading.tsx',
					active: true,
				},
				{
					id: '2.2',
					name: 'mdx.tsx',
					active: true,
				},
			],
		},
		{
			id: '3',
			name: 'content',
			children: [
				{
					id: '3.1',
					name: 'blog',
					children: [{ id: '3.1.1', name: 'hello-world.mdx', active: true }],
				},
			],
		},
		{
			id: '4',
			name: '.velite',
			children: [
				{
					id: '4.1',
					name: '...velite auto genarating json files',
				},
				{ id: '4.2', name: 'blog.json', active: true },
			],
		},
		{ id: '5', name: 'package.json' },
		{ id: '6', name: 'next.config.mjs', active: true },
		{ id: '7', name: 'velite.config.ts', active: true },
	]}
	expandAll={true}
/>

#### 3. In `next.config.mjs`

Config for Velite plugins with webpack

<CodeBlock fileName="next.config.mjs">

```ts showLineNumbers
import { build } from 'velite'

/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
// eslint-disable-next-line import/no-anonymous-default-export
export default {
	webpack: (config) => {
		config.plugins.push(new VeliteWebpackPlugin())
		return config
	},
}

class VeliteWebpackPlugin {
	static started = false
	constructor(/** @type {import('velite').Options} */ options = {}) {
		this.options = options
	}
	apply(/** @type {import('webpack').Compiler} */ compiler) {
		compiler.hooks.beforeCompile.tapPromise('VeliteWebpackPlugin', async () => {
			if (VeliteWebpackPlugin.started) return
			VeliteWebpackPlugin.started = true
			const dev = compiler.options.mode === 'development'
			this.options.watch = this.options.watch ?? dev
			this.options.clean = this.options.clean ?? !dev
			await build(this.options)
		})
	}
}
```

</CodeBlock>

#### 4. Velite configuration and Define Collections in `velite.config.ts`

After creating a velite.config.ts file in the root directory of your project to define collections config.

Velite uses `velite.config.js/ts` as the config file. You can see it in the root directory of your project.
Now we can put our blog in to velite defineConfig function

<CodeBlock fileName="velite.config.ts">

```ts showLineNumbers
import { defineCollection, defineConfig, s } from 'velite'

export const computedFields = <T extends { slug: string }>(data: T) => {
	return { ...data, slugAsParams: data.slug.split('/').slice(1).join('/') }
	// blog/hello-world => ['blog', 'hello-world'] => ['hello-world] => '/hello-world'
}

const posts = defineCollection({
	name: 'Post', // name of colection
	pattern: 'blog/**/*.mdx', // watch all mdx file in blog folder
	schema: s
		.object({
			id: s.string(),
			slug: s.path(), // return blog path
			title: s.string().max(999),
			date: s.isodate(),
			lastUpdated: s.isodate().optional(),
			metadata: s.metadata().optional(),
			description: s.string().max(999).optional(),
			published: s.boolean().default(true),
			hashTags: s
				.object({
					category: s.string(),
					tags: s.array(s.string()),
				})
				.optional(),
			body: s.mdx(), // mdx content
			toc: s.toc({ tight: true, ordered: true, maxDepth: 6 }), // toc stand for table-of-content
			//slugAsParams <=> needed transform
		})
		.transform(computedFields),
})

export default defineConfig({
	root: 'content',
	output: {
		data: '.velite',
		assets: 'public/static',
		base: '/static/',
		name: '[name]-[hash:6].[ext]',
		clean: true,
	},
	collections: { posts },
	mdx: {
		rehypePlugins: [],
		remarkPlugins: [],
	},
})
```

</CodeBlock>

#### 5. Create the first content 🔥

<CodeBlock fileName="content/blog/hello-world.mdx">
```mdx showLineNumbers
---
id: 'xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-...'
title: 'This is the first post'
date: '2024-11-18T00:00:00Z'
lastUpdated: '2024-11-18T00:00:00Z'
description: 'Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua.'
published: true
hashTags: { category: 'Blog', tags: ['Lorem', 'Ipsum'] }
---

`##` Hello world

`###` This is my first post

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi ut aliquip ex ea commodo consequat. Duis aute irure dolor in reprehenderit in voluptate velit esse cillum dolore eu fugiat nulla pariatur. Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.

````

</CodeBlock>

After creating your content in hello-world.mdx, check your folder structured, you would see a folder named `.velite`, inside it you can see 2 files named `index.d.ts` and `blog.json`, that means ours `hello-world.mdx` have been parsed successfuly.

Inside `components/mdx.tsx` you can dynamically renders MDX content in a Next.js application by customizing specific HTML elements such as headings (h2, h3, etc.) and links (a) using React components, providing enhanced styling and functionality.

<CodeBlock fileName="components/mdx.tsx">

```tsx showLineNumbers
import Link from 'next/link'
import * as runtime from 'react/jsx-runtime'

import Heading from '@/components/heading'

const useMDXComponent = (code: string) => {
	const fn = new Function(code)
	return fn({ ...runtime }).default
}

const components = {
	// overwrite heading or other components here...
	h2: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h2'>) => <Heading as="h2" {...props} />,
	h3: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h3'>) => <Heading as="h3" {...props} />,
	h4: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h4'>) => <Heading as="h4" {...props} />,
	h5: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h5'>) => <Heading as="h5" {...props} />,
	h6: (props: React.ComponentPropsWithoutRef<'h6'>) => <Heading as="h6" {...props} />,
	a: (props: React.AnchorHTMLAttributes<HTMLAnchorElement>) => {
		const { children, href, ...rest } = props

		if (!href) {
			return (
				<span className="text-muted-foreground line-through transition-colors hover:text-foreground" {...rest}>
					{children}
				</span>
			)
		}

		return (
			<Link
				className="font-bold text-green-600 no-underline transition-colors hover:text-foreground hover:underline dark:text-green-400"
				href={href}
				{...rest}
			>
				{children}
			</Link>
		)
	},
}

interface MdxProps {
	code: string
}

export function MDXContent({ code }: MdxProps) {
	const Component = useMDXComponent(code)
	return <Component components={components} />
}
````

</CodeBlock>

---

<CodeBlock fileName="app/blog/page.tsx">

```tsx showLineNumbers {3,8}
import Link from 'next/link'

import { posts } from '@/.velite'

function BlogPage() {
	return (
		<div className="flex h-screen w-screen items-center justify-center">
			{posts.map((post) => {
				return (
					<Link key={post.id} href={post.slug}>
						<div className="flex h-[200px] w-[400px] flex-col justify-between rounded-md border p-4">
							<p className="text-md font-bold">{post.title}</p>
							<p className="text-sm">{post.description}</p>
							<span>{post.date}</span>
						</div>
					</Link>
				)
			})}
		</div>
	)
}

export default BlogPage
```

</CodeBlock>

---

<CodeBlock fileName="app/blog/[...slug]/page.tsx">

```tsx showLineNumbers {4,28}
import { notFound } from 'next/navigation'

import { posts } from '@/.velite'
import { MDXContent } from '@/components/mdx'

interface PostPageProps {
	params: Promise<{ slug: string[] }>
}

async function getPostFromParams(params: PostPageProps['params']) {
	const resolvedParams = await params
	const slug = resolvedParams.slug.join('/')
	const post = posts.find((post) => post.slugAsParams === slug)

	return post
}

export default async function BlogDetailPageView({ params }: PostPageProps) {
	const post = await getPostFromParams(params)

	if (!post || !post.published) {
		notFound()
	}

	return (
		<div className="relative flex justify-between gap-10">
			<article>
				<MDXContent code={post.body} />
			</article>
		</div>
	)
}
```

</CodeBlock>

The `@tailwindcss/typography` plugin is a powerful tool in TailwindCSS that provides a set of pre-designed styles for rich text content. It's perfect for styling elements like blog posts, documentation, or any page with long-form content.

When installed using:

<CodeBlock fileName="bash">

```bash
npm i @tailwindcss/typography
```

</CodeBlock>

You integrate this plugin into your Tailwind configuration file (tailwind.config.js or tailwind.config.ts). This enables you to apply sophisticated typography styles with minimal effort.

In the tailwind.config.ts file, you add the plugin:

<CodeBlock fileName="tailwind.config.ts">

```ts showLineNumbers
const config: Config = {
	plugins: [require('@tailwindcss/typography')],
}
```

</CodeBlock>

<LinkCard href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tailwindcss/typography" hostname="tailwindcss" title="Tailwind" />

After this, you can use the prose class to style your blog post content. For example:

<CodeBlock fileName="app/blog/[...slug]/page.tsx">

```tsx showLineNumbers {10}
export default async function BlogDetailPageView({ params }: PostPageProps) {
	const post = await getPostFromParams(params)

	if (!post || !post.published) {
		notFound()
	}

	return (
		<div className="relative flex justify-between gap-10">
			<article className="prose lg:prose-xl">
				<MDXContent code={post.body} />
			</article>
		</div>
	)
}
```

</CodeBlock>

## Final result

Your blog should now:

-   Dynamically render posts from .mdx files.
-   Be fully responsive and styled using TailwindCSS.
-   Include SEO-friendly metadata for better visibility on search engines.
-   Support features like categories, tags, and pagination.

Here's a preview of the final product:

<Image
	src="/assets/images/content/post/dev-blog/how-to-build-a-blog-with-next-js-and-velite-js/first-post.png"
	width={1920}
	height={1024}
	alt="first-post.png"
/>
<Image
	src="/assets/images/content/post/dev-blog/how-to-build-a-blog-with-next-js-and-velite-js/first-post-detail.png"
	width={1920}
	height={1024}
	alt="first-post-detail.png"
/>

---

## Conclusion

With Next.js and Velite.js, building a feature-rich, SEO-friendly blog is simple and efficient. This guide covered everything from setting up the project to deploying it live, ensuring you have a strong foundation for future enhancements.

As your blog scales, the flexibility of Velite allows you to add new features like multilingual support, custom layouts, or advanced analytics with ease.

Happy coding (づ￣3￣)づ╭❤️～
