content/pages/about.mdx, before:

## WHO AM I

I'm a Full Stack Developer in Hong Kong. I am 18 and learning TypeScript, Next.js, React.js, Node.js, and database management. Now, I have a passion for learning UI/UX.

I started learning web development on December 5, 2020 (I was 14 years old). It's a big challenge because it's just one of my hobbies, and I have yet to take any courses. I am self-learning on YouTube. One of my favorite YouTube channels is [The Net Ninja](https://www.youtube.com/@NetNinja). I learned a lot of web development skills from him.

I love using [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) to create a website. Then use [GitHub](https://github.com) to host my codebase. After that, I use [Vercel](https://vercel.com) to deploy my website.

## About this site

-   Framework: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
-   Database: [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
-   ORM: [Drizzle](https://orm.drizzle.team/)
-   Authentication: [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/)
-   Deployment: [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
-   Content: [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/)
-   Analytics: [Umami](https://github.com/umami-software/umami)
-   Styling: [Tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com)
-   Code syntax highlighting: [Shiki](https://github.com/shikijs/shiki)

Thanks to **Timothy Lin** for the
[tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog](https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog). It helped me when I haven't any idea how to create a blog from scratch. My code isn't like the starter code because I changed a lot of code :)

## Inspiration

Here are some websites that inspired me a lot to build a fantastic website.

Refer to [README](https://github.com/tszhong0411/honghong.me?tab=readme-ov-file#%EF%B8%8F-credits)

## Social links

-   [GitHub](https://github.com/tszhong0411)
-   [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/tszhong0411)
-   [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/tszhong0411)
-   [X](https://x.com/tszhong0411)
-   [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@tszhong0411)

## Logo

<Logo />

Commit message:

main: add about page, update new main nav bar

content/pages/about.mdx, after:

---
id: '77980926-5baa-4b1c-b558-c1b0c81eecak'
title: 'About me'
date: '2024-08-22T00:00:00Z'
lastUpdated: '2024-08-22T00:00:00Z'
modifiedTime: '2024-09-17T00:00:00Z'
description: 'Explore 8 outstanding web design websites that captivate and inspire. Elevate your design game with these top-notch platforms.'
author:
    { avatar: '/assets/images/logo/logo-light.svg', name: 'Hieu.BuiMinh', github: 'https://github.com/Hieu-BuiMinh' }

published: true
tags: ['about', 'intro']
---

## WHO AM I

I'm a Frontend Developer in Vietnam. I am 24 and learning TypeScript, Next.js, React.js, Node.js, and database management. Now, I have a passion for learning UI/UX.

I started learning web development on December 5, 2020 (I was 20 years old). It's a big challenge because it's just one of my hobbies, and I have yet to take any courses. I am self-learning on YouTube. One of my favorite YouTube channels are [The Net Ninja](https://www.youtube.com/@NetNinja), [Code With Antonio](https://www.youtube.com/@codewithantonio), [Cosden Solutions](https://www.youtube.com/@cosdensolutions). I learned a lot of web development skills from them.

I love using [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) to create a website. Then use [GitHub](https://github.com) to host my codebase. After that, I use [Vercel](https://vercel.com) to deploy it.

## About this site

-   Framework: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
-   Database: [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
-   Authentication: [NextAuth.js](https://next-auth.js.org/)
-   Deployment: [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
-   Content: [MDX](https://velite.js.org/)
-   Analytics: [Umami](https://github.com/umami-software/umami)
-   Styling: [Tailwindcss](https://tailwindcss.com)
-   Code syntax highlighting: [Shiki](https://github.com/shikijs/shiki)

Thanks to **Timothy Lin** for the
[tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog](https://github.com/timlrx/tailwind-nextjs-starter-blog). It helped me when I haven't any idea how to create a blog from scratch. My code isn't like the starter code because I changed a lot of code :)

## Inspiration

Here are some websites that inspired me a lot to build a fantastic website.

-   HongHong: [honghong.me](https://honghong.me/)
-   Cuberto: [cuberto.com](https://cuberto.com/)
-   Fuma-Nama: [fuma-nama.vercel.app](https://fuma-nama.vercel.app/)
-   Fellipe-Utaka: [fellipeutaka.vercel.app](https://fellipeutaka.vercel.app)

Refer to this [README](https://github.com/techwithanirudh/shadcn-portfolio)

## Social links

-   [GitHub](https://github.com/Hieu-BuiMinh)
-   [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/hieu.buiminh.37)
-   [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/walter.02.12/)
-   [X](https://x.com/Walter_BM_777)
-   [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/@-warlock.b.m-8758/playlists)
